The files in this directory were collected for the purpose of determining the
orientation of the accelerometer sensor axes relative to the bicycle frame.
The reference frame which is most convenient for describing the bicycle frame
has one unit vector parallel to the steer axis, another unit vector
perpendicular to the frame plane of symmetry, and the third as the cross
product of the other two.

Level used: Pratt & Whitney 12" level, 0.0005" / foot / graduation

Coordinates:  phi:  roll angle of bicycle
            theta:  pitch angle of bicycle (zero pitch: vertical steer axis)

All data collection was done for approximately 10 seconds, except for the first
drive side configuration, which was shorter, about 7 or 8 seconds.

Files and the description of the method used to configure the bicyle:

dsideup01, dsideup02:  phi = -pi/2
dsidedown01, dsidedown02 = pi/2
This data was collect with the drive side up and down respectively.  V-blocks
were placed on the granite table in the student machine shop of Bainer Hall.
The top and seat tubes are the same diameter, so two small v-blocks (matched pair)
were placed under the seat tube on a large steel cube.  The seat tube was
subsequently made level with shim stock placed under the cube.  The top tube
was supported by a single v-block, and by raising/lowering this vblock, the top
tube was made level.  Raising and lower the vblock under the top tube
effectively rotated the frame about the seat-tube.  By making both the seat and
top tubes level, the frame was assumed to be level.  Two sets of data were
taken in each configuration and the leveling procedure was performed in both
configurations.

savup01, savup02: phi = 0, theta = 0
The fork drop outs were placed on the ground and the bottom bracket was
supported by a stack of books with the bicycle frame symmetry plane in a
vertical plane.  By adjusting the height of the stack of books, the top of the
aluminum box section that the steer motor mounts to was made level in one
direction.  It was made level in the second direction by placing shims under
the left side of the fork.  The procedure required a bit of iteration.  Two
sets of data were collected in this configuration.

savdo01, savdo02:   phi=0, theta=pi
The top of the aluminum box section was clamped face down on a work bench,
shims were incrementally added underneath the right and back sides until the
underside of the box section was made level in two directions.  Two sets of
data were collected.

sahfup01, sahfup02: phi=0, theta = pi/2
The bicycle was supported by a horizontal 1/2" round steel rod between the
junction of the steer tube and the down tube, outside the front triangle.  The
rod was supported between two tables.  The steer axis calibration fixture was
was placed in the fork and the rear dropouts to hold the fork steady and to
provide a surface on which to level the rear axle.  The heigh of the rod was
adjusted so that the top of the "T" end of the fixture was about 1" above the
ground and could be pushed in two directions in the ground plane, thereby
allowing the pitch and roll of the frame to be very carefully adjusted.
Flat 1/2" tall by 6" square weights from Maury Hull's calibration rig  were
used to manipulate the end of the T so that once the steer axis and rear axle
were made level, the frame would not move.  Two sets of data were collected.

sahfd01, sahfd02, sahfd03, sahfd04:  phi=0, theta = pi/2
The sides of the aluminum box section were gently clamped in the vice on a
wooden workbench.  The bolts fastening the vice to the workbench were loosened
so that the vice could be raised/lowered in such a way to make the rear axle
horizontal, while the steer axis was made horizontal by rotating the frame
about an axis perpendicular to the faces of the vice.  These two leveling
procedures were iterated to obtain a horizontal rear axle and a horizontal
steer axis.  The first two data sets were suspiciously the exact same file
size, so two more sets of data were collected to verify that collection was
working properly.  It appears that the data collection just happened to be
exactly the same length for the first two runs.
